From New York Times, I'm Michael
Barbaro. This is The Daily.
>> [music]
>> The question of what to do about
undocumented immigrants has long bonded
President [music] Trump to his
supporters,
so much so that an overwhelming majority
of them back his all-out crackdown over
the past year.
But,
then came the extraordinary events of
the past [music] few weeks in
Minneapolis, where federal agents killed
two American citizens in the streets.
Suddenly,
>> [music]
>> two of the MAGA movement's biggest
priorities, fighting illegal immigration
and fighting [music] government
overreach, were colliding in the most
vivid way imaginable.
Today,
we speak with Trump voters about how
they're making [music] sense of that
clash, and how in some cases it's
fundamentally changing their view
>> [music]
>> of the president.
It's
>> [music]
>> Monday, February 9th.
Hello. Hi, this is Caitlin calling from
The New York Times. How are you? Hi, my
name is Jessica Chung, and we met a
while ago around the Maricopa Republican
office. Over the past few weeks, as
tensions in Minnesota ramped up, Daily
producers Caitlin O'Keefe and Jessica
Chung spoke with over a dozen people who
voted for Donald Trump in the last
election. I'm in Massachusetts. Oh, you
are. I'm in my garage,
talking to you right now. I'm smoking a
cigar while we're having this
conversation. Nice. Wow. For many of
them, immigration had been a major
reason for that vote.
I remember they painted the picture that
there was a large caravan, that's what
they called it.
>> A continuous flow of migrant caravans
coming up. That was my impression is
that people were coming over in droves.
And it looked like there was
10, 20, 30,000 people or more. And then
they were like, oh yeah, you know,
there's all these Chinese people coming
through the border. Like it was just
like random things you would hear and
you're like, wait, what? What is going
on?
And from the moment Trump was sworn in
for a second term, they were impressed
with just how quickly and decisively he
[music] took action to close the border.
Oh, I think he did a fantastic job with
it.
This is absolutely extraordinary. And he
just used existing laws. He said, okay,
the border's closed.
We went from being invaded on a daily
basis
to borders where law and order
prevailed. We keep hearing people talk
about how the immigration system's
broken. Well, the immigration laws are
broken. Yet in fact, we discovered that
was not true.
>> It's not broken, it's just not enforced.
[music]
>> We just simply need to enforce them.
What a novel concept.
Once they closed the border, then the
next step was to get people out that
came in illegally.
In practice, that meant deploying
thousands of federal agents into the
streets of American cities.
It meant huge protests [music]
against ICE and Border Patrol.
The National Guard going into
neighborhoods,
detentions [music] at courthouses,
and federal agents [music] showing up at
workplaces, at stores, and near schools.
It's still really scary to see our
friends and teachers
get um
tear gassed.
Were you at the school where At that
point, some of Trump's voters began to
rethink [music] their support for the
president's plan.
They're grabbing kids or they're
grabbing US citizens,
>> [music]
>> detaining them, and putting them in the
back of the van, and not giving them
reasonable suspicion as to why they're
being taken away. I did not know that
things like that would happen people
that are doing this the legal way, that
are going to the immigration office to
take care of a lapse of paperwork or the
next step in their process to become a
citizen. This is wrong.
The way they're going about this is
inhumane.
And I don't support it. I was like,
I want to go and step up and do what I
can and protest and be with my fellow
humanity.
And then, an ICE agent shot and killed a
US citizen. The most recent situation
that happened with Renee Good was an
unbelievable
eye-opener
to what was going on and how this
administration was going to handle
things moving forward. That was a kind
of wake-up call for people like Chris
Stinnett in Lexington, Kentucky and
Carter Brown in Atlanta, Georgia. I told
someone close to me that like that could
have been any of us, and her reply back
to me was, "Well, I'd hope you'd have
more sense than to ever be at somewhere
like that." They even started to wonder,
could that have been me or a member of
my family? At first, I didn't know her
race. It it broke me, and then to find
out that she was white afterwards. It
scared me even more.
Did your wife also feel similarly? Oh,
100%. She's been very upset. She's 37.
And so, that resonates with her a little
bit because Renee Good was 37.
>> Mhm.
>> And she's also a mom.
They had believed that Trump's
enforcement actions would focus on the
worst of the worst, people who had a
record of committing violent crimes.
This wasn't that.
Both Carter and Chris, who supported
Donald Trump in the last three
presidential elections, now say that
they regret their vote.
People hate that I use the word
bamboozled, but that's the best way that
I can describe how I feel.
On the outside looking in, you know,
you're like, it was an open book test.
Everything was right there.
>> [music]
>> The community that I just left,
many of them have don't tread on me
flags flying. [music] But, you know what
their reply back to what happened with
Renee is, just comply.
So, what is it? Don't tread on me or
just comply?
If we remove everybody,
how many more people will die along the
way?
>> [music]
[music]
>> But, of course, not everyone with
misgivings regrets their vote for Trump.
For some of them, it's more complicated.
Caitlin O'Keefe reached one [music] such
voter in Minnesota.
Can I just have you introduce yourself?
Yeah, I am Wilk Wilkinson.
A couple weeks ago, I called Wilk
Wilkinson. He's 50 years old, and he
lives about 40 miles outside of
Minneapolis, near Clearwater. I grew up
working in restaurants, working
construction, truck driving,
very kind of a blue collar atmosphere.
He says the populist message of the
right resonated with him. I I voted for
Donald Trump in 2016, and 2020, and
2024. Now, he works for a nonprofit that
aims to bridge political divides. I
wanted to understand how he was thinking
about the battle over immigration
enforcement going on in his home state.
I agree fully with the idea that we have
far too many people in this country who
came here illegally and have not done
things the right way and we we are a
nation of laws and those laws have to be
upheld but there is also a right way to
do things and a wrong way. When the news
broke on January 24th the federal agents
had killed a man in Minneapolis named
Alex Pretty
Will Quint looking for the video.
You know when I initially saw the first
video and then I heard the narrative
coming out of Secretary of Homeland
Security Kristi Noem I do want to
address the tragic situation that we saw
in Minneapolis today that unfolded on
the streets. It occurred with DHS law
enforcement as they carried out their
lawful duties to keep Americans safe in
the I heard her say what she said. This
individual went and impeded their law
enforcement operations attacked those
officers had a weapon on him and
multiple dozens of rounds of ammunition
wishing to inflict harm on these
officers coming brandishing like that
and impeding their work that they were
doing.
>> [music]
>> The first thing that I was looking for
was any way that it could be considered
you know brandishing a firearm
>> [music]
>> because that was the immediate narrative
that came out. I'm like I've got to see
if I'm missing something.
Is there something happening here that I
am not seeing?
>> [music]
>> I watched every single video that I
think is online. I watched it several
times. I
dropped it into my software slowed it
down sped it up trying to
>> [music]
>> make it all make sense and
so immediately that it was an outright
fabrication on the part of Kristi Noem
unfortunately and
and I'm like this is awful. awful And I
was so disappointed. I got to be honest
cuz I was a huge Kristi Noem fan when
she was the governor of South Dakota.
Uh but then I think what was more
disappointing was
they stuck to it and then it instantly
became tribalized. People went to their
side, went to their silos, and started
excusing things that they would never,
ever, ever otherwise excuse was the
biggest heartbreak for me personally.
[music]
Another thing that concerned Wilk was
the Trump administration coming out
after the shooting saying that it was
unlawful for Preddy to bring a gun to a
protest. As Christie said, you cannot
bring a firearm loaded with multiple
magazines to any sort of protest that
you want. It's that simple. You don't
have that right to break the law. I
mean, I will say this, Kaylan. I'm a
concealed carrier, you know, I'm a
Second Amendment absolutist. I, you
know, I've been around guns literally my
whole life. And was he allowed to carry
a gun where he was?
By law?
Yes, he was.
Kash Patel, the FBI director, was
clearly wrong about stating what he
stated. Kristi Noem was clearly wrong
about stating what she stated. The fact
that they play so fast and loose with
making statements like that when they
were clearly wrong says yes, the Second
Amendment is in danger
of being violated by this
administration. Now, was it smart that
Alex Preddy was armed while he was doing
what he was doing? No, not at all. It
was a very, very, very poor life choice
that certainly contributed
to him getting killed. There are no
question about that.
Does what happened to Preddy, does that
video change in any way the way that you
think about the Trump administration and
its enforcement of immigration policies?
I would say that the way that these
policies are being enforced or were, I
think Tom Homan actually introduces a
level of
calm and consideration that wasn't there
before. But, the way that they were
being enforced was all wrong.
Conservatives are supposed to be in my
opinion suspect of government force.
And the government's sole role is to
protect the individual from undue force
and fraud. I was definitely seeing an
element of undue force being perpetrated
by the federal government, which I'm
100% against.
When they begin to use undue force on
the citizens of this country, it changes
the dynamic of that relationship, and
it's a very, very, very big deal. Mhm.
And what were your views on mass
deportations before? Like the goal, and
you know, have they changed in the past
year, and also in the past week?
So, my opinion of
of mass deportations and the idea that
we need to deport people who are in this
country legally has not changed. Not
because of this event, not because of
what's happening in Minnesota. Just
because the way that something is being
implemented in my opinion is egregious,
it's just
terribly
ineffective and incompetent does not
change the fact that I think that the
thing itself
is still the right thing to do.
So,
is it fair to say that President Trump
still has your support, but they need to
do better?
I would say that the Constitution has my
support.
>> [music]
>> I mean, there are still some things that
that the Trump administration is doing
that I fully support.
And the only thing that I can say in
terms of continuing to support this
administration is
if Kamala Harris had won the election, I
don't think anything that I wanted would
have been accomplished at this point.
And probably
even
>> [music]
>> made several things worse.
So, there's that.
I'm still at least this way getting
something, but we still have a really,
really, really big problem with an
administration that doesn't seem to have
a lot of regard for the First Amendment,
the Second Amendment, the Fourth
Amendment, and probably several others.
Let's be honest. It's It's problematic.
Recent polling shows that about 30% of
Republicans think immigration
enforcement tactics have gone too far.
But the vast majority say it's either on
track or needs to go even further.
Looking at how the Trump administration
is currently pursuing mass deportations,
is there anything you would do
differently? As far as the Trump
administration goes, no, not really.
>> [music]
>> He's doing all the things that he
promised while he was running. He's
doing what I hired him to do. I think
that's exactly what I voted for.
So, to sit back and complain that he's
doing those things now is kind of
stupid, if you ask me. If you voted for
him, you need to be supporting him all
the way.
>> [music]
>> My problem isn't with the deportations.
My problem is that these so-called
protesters are instigating, like they
want stuff like this to happen.
It's one thing to stand on the street
and make your voice heard. It's another
thing to [music] get in the middle of
those guys doing their job and stand in
their way. You show up with a weapon,
I'm sorry, they're going to use force. I
know this sounds very harsh, but you
play stupid [music] games, you win
stupid prizes.
>> you make stupid choices, you get stupid
consequences. [music]
I still support the deportation policy.
Illegal immigration is wrong, no matter
how you look at it. People have to leave
the country. You know, whatever they say
we're going to get rid of the illegals
and we're going to close the border,
nobody ever says exactly what that's
going to look like.
Or let's say making barbecue, for
instance. I don't know, do you like
barbecue, Carl?
Oh, yeah. Okay.
You may not like watching how it's made.
So, that's my point.
>> Nice, that it could be ugly. It could be
ugly.
After the break, we hear from one of
those Trump voters who thinks that the
president's deportation effort
>> [music]
>> should go even further. And why for this
voter, that feeling runs so deeply.
[music]
We're right back.
Can you tell me a little bit about
yourself? Your name, where you live,
what you do. My name is John.
Um 53 years old. I'm a mason.
I live in Massachusetts.
I've been in
in the construction industry my whole
life.
And I have their own a very small
company. Um I have a wife, two kids, and
um
that's me in a nutshell. I first
connected with John Polem about 3 weeks
ago.
He lives in Bolton, a rural town in
Central Massachusetts. Is there a
political party that you have
historically identified with?
Um initially, it would have been the
Democratic Party when I was in high
school and I'll probably a few years
after.
And then, I generally kind of turned
conservative.
And I voted for Trump
in 2024. Uh-huh.
And did you vote for him in '16? You
know, have you always felt like he's a
politician that you've believed in?
So, in 2016, 2020, and 2024,
I believe I was given the option, and
excuse my French, I was given the option
to eat or drink piss. And in all
three cases, I drank piss. Mhm. So,
there's your answer. And I In all three
cases, I voted for Trump.
So, that's how much passion I have for
the man.
Mhm.
What were the most important issues to
you when you cast your ballot in 2024?
Well, immigration was a major issue, but
that has been an issue my whole entire
life.
Can I ask why? Uh because of what I do.
To be kind of simple, I move mass with
my body. I'm a laborer at the very root
of what I do. I
move things. I pick things up, I put
things down. [clears throat]
And that kind of work
has been
compromised by illegal immigration,
greatly.
I got into construction
purely as an accident.
I was sort of a juvenile delinquent a
bit.
And my cousin said, "Work for me in
Nantucket for a landscape construction
company." And I went down there and I
worked as a laborer.
>> [music]
>> And then as I did it, I, you know, I
became a pretty good laborer.
Later, I worked for other companies and
I was seeing
>> [music]
>> people getting hired and getting paid a
lot less than me.
And
when I inquired about it, my boss would
say, "Well, they're less expensive. I
don't have to pay workman's comp on
them. I don't have to pay general
liability insurance on them.
If they get hurt, they'll go to the
emergency room. No sweat off my back.
And
>> [music]
>> I was getting paid less and less because
I was competing against people
who were hired [music] because cost less
to hire them or employ them.
And that bothered me.
And then when I became a mason and I
started building,
I found that I was competing with
companies that did that practice and I I
couldn't hire an illegal
alien. I I just didn't seem right. It's
illegal, by the way.
But people are getting away with it
and I'm competing against them.
And you notice it by just simply seeing
the crews that are going out there. And
when you give a price to somebody to do
work,
you're not even close to the lowest or
the mid price. You're always the highest
price. [music] And
I'm never going to get a certain
percentage of jobs and then I can't
increase my rate because it's an unfair
marketplace.
>> [music]
>> I like the idea of working for myself
and I could do the work and I was good
at it. But it's getting to the point I'm
getting older and it's harder to do, uh
especially now. I can't
I can't hire a labor because I don't
feel
that I can give them an
a living wage.
So it's just me doing the work, which is
it's beating me up quite a bit, but um
so I stay in shape and I keep going.
Did you feel under Biden that that
problem was worse, the problem of
competition from immigrant labor?
No, it's been steadily getting worse.
What recently kind of narrowed down my
thought process on that was what Trump
did at the border his second term
by immediately shutting it down
the border crossings.
All the way back to when I started
working when
it was Bush Sr. was president,
uh we had illegal immigration problems.
It seems like every president
had an opportunity
to stop that flood of illegal immigrants
going over the border, and none of them,
Democrat or Republican,
did anything about it. And the fact that
it could have been done so quickly, as
we have seen,
is a little alarming to me.
It makes me feel like I'm forgotten
as an American worker,
as a working-class person.
They talk about the working class in
this country. They talk about the
business owners in this country being
the backbone of the country, but
politicians don't believe that, or they
don't act on that.
Well, this brings me to the next
question that I wanted to ask you, which
is
how do you feel about what President
Trump has done on immigration so far,
this first year of his second term?
I'd like to say he's doing enough. I
don't think he is, but this country
seems to not be able to handle it.
I don't think we have the stomach for
it, what needs to happen.
ICE agents shouldn't be put in a
situation where they have to
fight citizens of the country
to do a job that shouldn't have never
happened. And we shouldn't have had this
issue with illegal immigrants. Now we
do, it's very hard to stomach what we
need to do to take care of it. What do
you think needs to be done?
Well, I think we need to do what he's
doing.
I think we do need to remove all illegal
immigrants, no matter how long they've
been here. In fact, Mhm. I'm not
uncompassionate to the people
that are illegally here. They are
generally good people. And I think
everyone can agree that they generally
aren't violent. But this is where the
compassion problem is, in my opinion.
So, we have compassion for these people
who need work and they need to better
their lives,
but
my compassion has to lie with the
American worker first.
We should really think about our
immigration policy in general if
the people here can't find the American
dream.
Mhm.
I don't know if he's doing enough and I
fear that if he did more, accidents like
we've seen has happened will happen,
which is horrible, horrible.
But we have to step back and say, why
did that happen? Why is there an ICE
agent in Minnesota? There shouldn't be
an ICE agent in Minnesota. We just shut
the border down.
The ICE agent is in Minnesota because of
40 years of illegal immigration. Mhm.
Is there a point when you think it will
be enough? Like, what's the end goal
that you think is right?
I mean, ideally you want zero illegal
immigrants in your country.
Is it achievable? I have
don't believe it's possible. I don't
know, though.
And unfortunately, we're at the point
where when we fix this, it's going to
cost money. I mean, you're going to have
to pay more to get your lawn cut, your
roof done. And you should pay more.
>> [music]
>> Because that's how much the job takes.
And that's how much these people who do
this job should make. They should make a
living
to earn that American dream.
Just over a week after John and I spoke,
[music] federal agents killed Alex
Preddy,
the second US citizen in Minnesota in
less than a month.
I called John back to see [music] if
this had shifted his views.
I saw some of the video, but I didn't
analyze it. I just know that probably
there were a couple faults there.
I don't believe he should have been
shot.
I believe probably the officer
that shot him
may not have known that the gun was
taken away from him.
And may have heard
another officer yell gun.
So, there's faults with the video not
kind of showing that, but I don't know
if you can get the whole story out of
that video. I certainly didn't.
I know that a person died and that's
wrong.
And I know officers felt threatened and
and that's wrong. Mhm. However, what
bothered me most about the whole thing
is that
in 2025,
there were
people that died by the hands of illegal
immigrants.
I just looked it up quickly
and some of them were were pretty bad.
And I put their names on the Google
and to see if I could find news stories
about them. And I particularly went to
the New York Times.
And there's no news on the first people
I put in. Not one news article.
Yet on this man that got shot by the
Border Patrol,
there's 18. I stopped counting at 18.
But there was a boy
that got killed
by an illegal immigrant when he was
helping his mother or stopping her from
getting raped.
Just 2025.
No report
from the New York Times.
And it's just there's a moral kind of
compass there that I think has been
lost.
So, that that that bothers me
like a a lot.
Beyond the drumbeat of news coverage
around Alex Pretty's death,
John told me he was also frustrated that
local law enforcement wasn't helping
federal immigration officials carry out
the deportations.
That ideally they'd be working together
as a team.
But despite these challenges, despite
the death of two American citizens,
despite the protests,
John still wanted the Trump
administration to stay the course in
Minnesota.
Just because the job
isn't working doesn't mean you stop
doing the job.
I believe in people's civil rights and
their right to protest.
When the protest stops a federal agent
from doing his job, that's when it stops
being protest. You know, the free speech
amendment is you can say anything you
want, but you can't yell fire in a
packed movie theater.
You can't take it to that extreme. You
can be on the sidelines
and protest
and the state and local government
should be there making sure the protest
is not getting involved
with the federal officers.
And they can protest and they have every
right to and they should if they don't
feel this is right. They should protest.
Absolutely.
But they should not
get involved in the
operations of federal agents going after
illegal immigrants.
That was the course of action that was
mandated by the people of this country.
Mhm.
Is there a point at which the cost
becomes too much? The cost of pursuing
this goal of
deporting people in the country
illegally?
One life should be too much.
But
the people who are getting hurt here are
people who are
getting themselves involved in a
action that is inherently
risky,
violent,
involves
weapons, involves
human moving other human beings who
don't want to be moved.
If someone puts themselves in a
situation like that, they're going to
have issues.
Just stay home.
Let the government do the job that your
previous government
got them into. It's not like Trump
brought these illegal immigrants into
these areas
just so we could kill American citizens.
I mean, that's what it sounds like if
you read the news papers.
It sounds like Trump started all this
and his border control started this.
Well,
if everyone just stayed home and let
them do their jobs,
there would be no deaths.
I wonder just what does the ideal
situation look like when you think about
the immigration system you'd like to
live under in 10 years or 20 years?
I guess what it would matter on the
state of
this country in terms of how it would
treat its lowest income earners.
So, if we have the ability for our
our our citizens, you know, after high
school to get a job to make a good
income,
buy a house, possibly,
to raise a family,
then we should have an immigration
policy that's very
liberal.
With vetting of all people from all
places
and have it equal to people of all
places.
I'd like it to be a an actual melting
pot of people all around the world.
So, that's where I see it in the future.
Well, thank you for talking to me and
talking [music] to me a couple times.
Thank you and uh hope you're doing well
as well. Bye-bye. Bye-bye.
We'll be right back.
>> Here's what else you need today. [music]
The latest disclosure of documents
related to Jeffrey Epstein has led to
the resignation [music] of a top aide to
Britain's Prime Minister.
On Sunday, Morgan McSweeney,
>> [music]
>> the chief of staff to Prime Minister
Keir Starmer, stepped down over his role
in the appointment of an Epstein friend
[music] as Britain's ambassador to the
United States.
New emails show that the ambassador,
Peter Mandelson, had a close
relationship with Epstein and even
shared sensitive [music] government
information with him.
McSweeney said that he now regrets
recommending [music]
Mandelson for the ambassadorship.
The latest Epstein disclosures will be
the subject of tomorrow's show.
>> [music]
>> And days after the Washington Post laid
off hundreds of journalists,
>> [music]
>> its CEO and publisher, Will Lewis, has
resigned.
Lewis, who was appointed [music] by Post
owner Jeff Bezos, failed to turn around
the Post's finances and had a strained
relationship with its newsroom.
That relationship was further inflamed
[music]
by Lewis's decision not to speak to the
newsroom during the layoffs.
Instead, [music] around the same time,
he was spotted attending an event
related to the Super Bowl in San
Francisco. [music]
>> [music]
>> Today's episode was produced by Caitlyn
Keefe, Jessica Chung, and Stella Tan
with help from Muzeady.
It was edited by [music] Lisa Chow and
Liz O'Brien. Contains research help from
Susan Lee and original [music] music by
Dan Powell, Mary Lozano, Pat McCusker,
and Alicia Betito.
And was engineered by Chris [music]
Wood.
Special thanks to Ruth Eglanek.
>> [music]
>> That's it for the day.
I'm Michael Barbaro.
See you tomorrow.